Accelerated Master's in Computer Science The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences offers a five-year program that allows students to obtain a Bachelor of Science (BS) in computer science and a Master of Science (MS) in computer science in five years. Program Structure Students enrolled in the Accelerated MS program will take four graduate-level COMPSCI courses prior to graduating with their undergraduate degree. All four of these courses will count towards the MS degree, with two of them also counting towards the BS degree. After completing their undergraduate studies, students will take six courses to complete the MS degree requirements. This is completed in one year (two semesters). Students may take independent study credits or complete an MS project in addition to regular courses. Eligibility The Accelerated MS program is open to computer science BS or BA undergraduate students at UMass Amherst who meet the following two criteria: At least 3.6 overall GPA (grade point average) upon application to the program Students who have a 3.5 GPA may apply for a pending status and have an end of semester GPA review B+ or higher in COMPSCI 311 Students who did not earn a B+ in  COMPSCI  311 may use 501, 514, 575, or 589 with a B. Will have completed two eligible graduate courses to double count and two eligible graduate courses to transfer. Students who do not meet this requirement may apply for the Bay State Scholarship and the MS in computer science degree program without the accelerated option. Application and Admission Process Students should apply in the second semester of their junior year (the semester prior to their final two semesters of their undergraduate program). Students who do not meet the minimum requirements during the second semester of junior year can apply in the first semester of their senior year or final semester , as long as the following criteria are met: B+ in COMPSCI 311 3.6 overall GPA On track to complete four eligible 500 or 600 level courses to count toward the MS degree. Applications automatically include eligibility review for the Bay State Scholarship , a multi-tiered program that provides tuition assistance for the MS program to computer science undergraduates from UMass Amherst and the Five Colleges. Accelerated students will receive only two semesters of the Bay State Scholarship or Fellowship. APPLY NOW Application Deadlines March 28 prior to a student's senior year (two semesters remaining) October 1 prior to a student's senior year (two semesters remaining) Same dates apply for students who apply in the first or second semester of senior year. Decisions are made within 30 days of the deadline. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Are the BS and MS degrees offered through this program the same as the individual BS and MS degrees? Yes, the BS and MS degrees offered through this program are identical to the individual BS and MS offered by the college. All degree requirements for the BS and MS degrees must be met. The Accelerated MS program does not affect the requirements for either one of these degree programs or any other dual-degree program. How much of my MS tuition will the Bay State scholarship apply to? The Bay State scholarship will apply to the remaining 18 credits you take after completing your undergraduate studies. If you choose to take more than 18 credits as an MS student, the Bay State scholarship will only apply to 18 of those credits. Scholarships will be awarded in two equal payments. What is the GPA requirement? In order to be eligible for the Accelerated MS program, students must have an overall GPA of 3.6 or higher at the time of application, and complete their undergraduate studies with an overall GPA of 3.6 or higher. Accepted students who do not complete their undergraduate studies with an overall GPA of 3.6 or higher will not be allowed to double-count the two undergraduate courses towards the MS degree. Is the GPA requirement of 3.6 or higher cumulative or major only? The GPA requirement of 3.6 or higher is overall/cumulative, not major only. Can I apply during the first semester of my senior year? Yes. See the Application and Admission Process section for details on the eligibility criteria for senior-year applicants. If you are not on track to complete the four graduate-level COMPSCI courses prior to graduation, then you will not be eligible for the Accelerated MS program or to double count any courses. You would only be eligible to apply to the traditional MS program and transfer at most six credits. Do I also need to apply to UMass Graduate School? Once accepted into the Accelerated MS program, you will need to submit a graduate school application during the semester prior to graduation. The graduate academic programs staff will send you instructions about when to submit your Bay State Scholarship application and graduate school application. You will not need to submit letters of recommendation/references, statement of purpose/personal statement, and you will not have to pay the application fee. Do I need to have completed COMPSCI 311 before applying? Yes. You need a B+ or higher in COMPSCI 311 in order to be eligible for the Accelerated MS program. COMPSCI 311 cannot be in progress when you apply. Is the Accelerated MS program open to informatics students who have taken COMPSCI 311? No, the Accelerated MS program is open to computer science BA and BS majors only. How many courses can I double count towards my BS and MS? Students accepted into the Accelerated MS program can double count two courses towards their BS and MS degrees. A course cannot count toward two majors and the MS degree. Do the double-counted course bring the grades with them into the graduate program? Yes, your grade for the double-counted courses will transfer into the Master's program as a letter grade and will be included in your graduate GPA. Can I double count a course that I received a P in? Yes, an undergraduate course that you received a P in can be counted towards your accelerated Master’s program, and it will transfer to the Master’s program with the underlying grade. The P will remain on your undergraduate transcript. Can I double count a course that I have also double counted for a double major or minor? No, a course can only be used for a maximum of two credentials. If you double count a course towards two majors, or a major and a minor, it can not count towards the accelerated MS in computer science program. Who will my advisor be during my last two semesters of my undergraduate studies? You will keep your undergraduate advisor. The advisor for the MS program will be kept informed of your progress in the graduate-level courses. Can the MS degree be completed online? Yes, you can choose to complete the MS degree online after you finish your undergraduate studies. However, the Bay State Scholarship does not apply to online courses. Not all graduate-level courses are available online each semester, so you may have fewer options for your final (fifth) year if you choose to complete your degree online. If my GPA is under 3.6 in the second semester of my junior year, can I apply in the first or second semester of my senior year? Yes, you can apply during the first or second semester of your senior year. You will be eligible for the Accelerated MS program then if your overall GPA is 3.6 or higher, you have taken two graduate-level CS courses, and completed COMPSCI 311 with a B+. Will I be able to remain in the MS program beyond one year if I choose to? Yes, you may continue in the program beyond the two semesters, but your Bay State Scholarship will no longer apply to credits beyond 18. Will I be able to transfer or double count graduate courses outside of computer science? Yes, courses outside of computer science that have been pre-approved for the MS degree can be considered for transfer and/or double counting. Can I defer my enrollment in the Accelerated MS program? No. If accepted, you must matriculate into the Accelerated MS program immediately following the completion of your undergraduate program. You may not defer enrollment to a future semester, or begin the Accelerated program after there has been one or more semesters off following your undergraduate completion. You may defer your enrollment in the MS program, but then you would not be able to use the accelerated benefits. Search form Search CICS Current Students CICS Advising Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Info for New Students Becoming a CS Major Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships & Fellowships Bay State Programs Undergraduate FAQ Research Opportunities Accelerated Master's in Computer Science Accelerated MS Application Contact Us Transfer Course Equivalencies Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations