Becoming a CS Major The College of Information and Computer Sciences is proud of its strong commitment to undergraduate teaching. The College currently supports several pathways for students to join the CS major in addition to first year direct admission including on-campus and transfer admission. The program does not require prior programming experience, such as high school AP courses in computer science. CURRENT UMASS AMHERST STUDENTS. Current UMass Amherst students from other majors who meet course and grade requirements may apply to join the computer science major. Applications are considered twice a year with deadlines preceding Spring and Fall registration periods. Information on the requirements and process in effect for applications submitted in the 2022-2023 academic year are available here . Starting in Fall 2023, the CS program will be adding a holistic review process to the current eligibility requirements and expects to admit fewer students in response to recent growth in the program. Information on the requirements and process in effect for applications submitted in the 2023-2024 academic year are available here . TRANSFER STUDENTS. Students interested in computer science should apply directly to the University through the Undergraduate Admissions Office .  Transfer students who are not directly admitted to the computer science major but are accepted by the University may apply for admission using the procedure described above. SECOND BACHELOR'S DEGREE PROGRAM (Post Graduate). We are no longer accepting students into this program. For a list of contacts for further information on the undergraduate program, please visit our help page: https://www.cs.umass.edu/content/whom-do-i-contact-help Computer Science Undergraduate Program Computer Science Bldg, Room 100 140 Governors Drive University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003-9264 phone: (413) 545-2744 fax: (413) 545-1249 If you are interested in Undergraduate Admissions, please contact: Undergraduate Admissions Office 37 Mather Drive University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003-9291 phone: (413) 545-0222 fax: (413) 545-4312 http://www.umass.edu/admissions/ Search form Search CICS Current Students CICS Advising Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Info for New Students Becoming a CS Major Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships & Fellowships Bay State Programs Undergraduate FAQ Research Opportunities Accelerated Master's in Computer Science Contact Us Transfer Course Equivalencies Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations