Committee Against Racism and for Equity (CARE) Overview and Background: What Is CARE? In 2020, Dean Laura Haas tapped over 50 faculty, students, and staff to lead our college's anti-racism efforts to identify and dismantle barriers to inclusion and equity in admissions, academic success, and the workplace—the Committee Against Racism and for Equity, or CARE. The committee quickly identified six projects to focus on for the 2020–2021 academic year. Some of those projects are now ongoing parts of CARE, some have been institutionalized or “spun off” into their own free-standing projects, and some have been folded into the four major CARE initiatives for 2021–2022. Read on to learn more about these initiatives and how you can get involved. CARE Committee Leadership Michelle Trim CARE Committee Co-Chair Senior Lecturer II & Associate Director of the Informatics Program Nader Akoury CARE Committee Co-Chair Doctoral Student, Computer Science Erika Dawson Head Director of Diversity and Inclusive Community Development 2021–2022 Projects Improving Representation Through Recruitment This group will investigate and make recommendations on our admissions recruitment processes, with a lens on how our college can become more effective in recruiting diverse students: who applies to our programs; who is accepted; and who of our accepted students enroll. Identifying Structural Barriers to Academic Success for Diverse Students Building on work by the Inclusive Teaching Committee and the Faculty Teaching Committee last year, this group will investigate and make recommendations related to academic policies and aspects of curriculum structure that present barriers to success for students from diverse and historically marginalized backgrounds. Cultural Competency Working Group Building off of work by the Microaggressions and Safe Spaces working group last year, this group will propose and develop strategies for cultural competency education in the college with an emphasis on preventing microaggressions and tone policing. Diversity Committee Antiracism Standing Reserve This group is being established for those volunteers who want to contribute, but who may not have regular availability and/or who do not have a preference for where their volunteer efforts are directed. This work couldn’t be done without the direct involvement of community members like you—the students, faculty, and staff at the heart of this work. Volunteer to be part of the CARE effort today. 2020–2021 Projects & Outcomes Committee and project chairs listed in bold. Inclusive Teaching Workshops Institutionalized under the new Teaching Development Committee Katie Smith , Will Lee, Cameron Musco, Aman Jha Held two events with guest speakers, presenting on developing inclusive syllabi and creating inclusive classrooms. Held one listening session for students and faculty on what an inclusive classroom should look like. Staff Advocacy Ongoing Emma Anderson , Brian Krusell, Arlo Oakley Created confidential, empowering space for staff to gather as peers with regular, scheduled twice-monthly meetings. Student Sourcebook Continuing temporarily to determine its lasting institutional home Justin Obara , Dale Osef, Elizabeth Parolski, Anupama Sitaraman, Joseph Michael Spitzer, Rik Sengupta, Benjamin Fenelon, Manasa Kalanadhabhatta, Victoria Partridge Built Decoding CICS , an online sourcebook of resources designed to demystify the college and its expectations for undergraduate and graduate students. Humans of CICS Institutionalized under the Office of Diversity and Inclusive Community Development Srisuma Movva & Jessica (Jessi) Johnson , Simon Andrews, Corinne Greene, Sayiyam Kochar, Emily Pruc With support from the marketing and communications team, Humans of CICS has been posting a regular series of profiles during academic semesters. Microaggressions and Safe Spaces Disbanded after convening multiple workshops Neena Thota , Maeve Newman, Kerry Shaw, Sankaran Vaidyanathan Held six workshops for students, faculty, and staff. Mentoring PhD students Seeking Academic Jobs Institutional home to be determined Subhransu Maji , Kenta Takatsu, Neil Immerman, Laure Thompson, Gerome Miklau, Kaleigh Clary Held one panel discussion and two workshops on strategies for academic job applicants. Improving Equity in Doctoral Admissions Disbanded with specific recommendations institutionalized within the Grad Admissions committee Donna Falcetti & Rachel Lavery , Eileen Hamel, Kimberly Springer, Parag Pachpute, Ivon Arroyo Investigated the college’s doctoral admissions process through interviews of faculty, staff, and students. Produced a data-rich report with evidence-based recommendations for achieving long-term progress toward increasing diversity in the program. Recommendations and ongoing data collection implemented by Graduate Admissions committee. PhD Applicant Support Program Institutionalized into a standing graduate student-led group Cecilia Ferrando & Akanksha Atrey , Sheshera Mysore, Jasper McChesney, Nader Akoury Created the ongoing, student-led PhD Applicant Support Program , a pre-application program that aims to support applicants applying to the Computer Science PhD program. The program provides 1-on-1 mentorship and feedback on PhD application materials to underrepresented applicants, and provides general application guidance via a live panel webinar to all applicants. Best Practices in Inclusive Teaching Institutionalized under the new Teaching Development Committee Jaime Davila & Nick Perello , Siobhan Mei, Christine Holbrook, Tim Richards, Rik Sengupta, Alyx Burns, Matt Rattigan, Michelle Trim, Marius Minea, Ajan Prabaka, Celia Lewis, Ruby Ramsay Held five faculty workshops and developed a hiring rubric for teaching faculty. Search form Search CICS Community Diversity & Inclusion Initiatives & Programs Diversity Committee Committee Against Racism and for Equity (CARE) Additional Resources Meet Our Staff Industry Affiliates Support CICS Alumni Ventures @ CICS Outstanding Achievement and Advocacy Awards Volunteer for CARE Together, we can build a truly safe, inclusive, equitable, and diverse college. As a member of the CICS community, your efforts will have a big impact. Whether you want to dive into an existing initiative listed below, suggest a new one, or play another role, your contribution will be valued. Volunteer for CARE