Doctoral Ranked among the top 25 programs in the U.S., our Ph.D. program features world-renowned faculty, interdisciplinary research and a spirit of collaboration. Master of Science/Doctor of Philosophy (M.S./Ph.D.) Most Computer Science graduate students are admitted in the MS/PhD track. That means they are intending to work toward a PhD, but will acquire a master's degree along the way. During the first stage of a student's graduate career, he or she will be simultaneously working toward the MS degree and compiling a portfolio, both of which are requirements of the PhD. M.S./Ph.D students are required to pass 6 core requirements, complete 36 credit hours (credits include core courses taken to pass requirements), 18 Dissertation Credits, and a 6-credit MS Project (which can be applied to the 36 credit hours). Our doctoral program provides assistantships for students during their first full year and during each academic semester following the first year. The assistantship provides a tuition waiver and 95% discount on the UMass Amherst health insurance plan. M.S./Ph.D. Requirements Courses & Course Schedule Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Students admitted into the PhD-only program usually arrive at UMass having already earned an MS degree at an accredited University. Ph.D. students are required to pass 6 core requirements, complete 18 credits (credits include core courses taken to pass core requirements), and 18 Dissertation Credits. Our doctoral program provides assistantships for students during their first full year and during each academic semester following the first year. The assistantship provides a tuition waiver and 95% discount on the UMass Amherst health insurance plan. Ph.D. Requirements Courses & Course Schedule Admissions Admission is very competitive. We typically accept 10 to 15% of students applying to our graduate programs. Backgrounds vary: we have students from engineering, math, computer science, electrical engineering, psychology and social sciences. With such a diverse group, an emphasis is placed on letters of recommendation, the personal statement, and GPA. The College expects that students starting work in the M.S./Ph.D. or Ph.D. tracks have a solid undergraduate background in Computer Science. Most MS/PhD students are supported by research or teaching assistantships . Apply Now Request Info Application Instructions Search form Search CICS Future Students Degree Programs Bachelor's Master's Doctoral Get to know some PhD students Certificate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions PHD Student profile Emily First, doctoral student in computer science Watch more PhD student profiles Contact: For admissions questions, email: csinfo@cs.umass.edu Application Deadline The application deadline for Fall admission is December 15.