Employment The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences invites applications for faculty, research, and staff positions. Learn more about our opportunities below. Faculty Positions Research Positions Staff Positions For a complete listing of all employment opportunities at UMass Amherst, please refer to the UMass Job Openings page. Celebrating almost 60 years of pioneering contributions to computing, the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) at UMass Amherst is home to graduate and undergraduate programs that are ranked among the top twenty-five in the nation by U.S. News & World Report and among the top twenty by CS Rankings. Following a decade of tremendous growth, CICS currently has 88 core faculty, including 20 ACM Fellows, 11 IEEE Fellows, and 36 NSF CAREER Award winners. CICS research encompasses all major technical specializations across the profession and serves as the focal point for interdisciplinary computing research at UMass Amherst, with affiliated research centers such as the Center for Intelligent Information Retrieval, the Center for Data Science, the Center for Smart and Connected Society, the Computational Social Science Institute, and the Cybersecurity Institute, as well as the new NIH-funded Massachusetts AI and Technology Center for Connected Care in Aging and Alzheimer's Disease. The college currently enrolls approximately 300 doctoral students, 400 master's students, and 2,000 undergraduate students in its computer science and informatics programs and continues to build on its history of innovative teaching with new programs in public interest technology and a growing online master's program. The college's new building, slated to open in the spring of 2025, is being designed to accommodate its growth and serve as a hub for community, collaboration, and research. The CICS community is united by a revolutionary vision for computing research, education, and outreach--Computing for the Common Good--and is committed to inspiring and educating students from all backgrounds and experiences, while conducting research that improves the lives of the people of the Commonwealth and the world. More information about the college can be found at cics.umass.edu. Search form Search CICS About Vision & Mission CICS at a Glance Contact Us Visiting CICS Dean's Office Our New Building Our History Faculty Achievements Employment Faculty Research Staff Computing Facilities Awards Programs