Faculty Positions Celebrating almost 60 years of pioneering contributions to computing, the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) at UMass Amherst is home to graduate and undergraduate programs that are ranked among the top twenty-five in the nation by U.S. News & World Report and among the top twenty by CS Rankings. Following a decade of tremendous growth, CICS currently has 88 core faculty, including 20 ACM Fellows, 11 IEEE Fellows, and 36 NSF CAREER Award winners. CICS research encompasses all major technical specializations across the profession and serves as the focal point for interdisciplinary computing research at UMass Amherst, with affiliated research centers such as the Center for Intelligent Information Retrieval, the Center for Data Science, the Center for Smart and Connected Society, the Computational Social Science Institute, and the Cybersecurity Institute, as well as the new NIH-funded Massachusetts AI and Technology Center for Connected Care in Aging and Alzheimer's Disease. The college currently enrolls approximately 300 doctoral students, 400 master's students, and 2,000 undergraduate students in its computer science and informatics programs and continues to build on its history of innovative teaching with new programs in public interest technology and a growing online master's program. The college's new building, slated to open in the spring of 2025, is being designed to accommodate its growth and serve as a hub for community, collaboration, and research. The CICS community is united by a revolutionary vision for computing research, education, and outreach--Computing for the Common Good--and is committed to inspiring and educating students from all backgrounds and experiences, while conducting research that improves the lives of the people of the Commonwealth and the world. More information about the college can be found at cics.umass.edu. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer of women, minorities, protected veterans, and individuals with disabilities and encourages applications from these and other protected group members. Assistant/Associate Professor - Data Management The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) invites applications for tenure-track faculty in the broad area of Data Management, at the Assistant and Associate Professor levels. Current faculty interests include systems and algorithms for data exploration, in-database analytics and machine learning, explainability, fairness, graph data, uncertain data, privacy, stream processing, high-performance data management and machine learning, and more. Associate Professor/Professor-Robotics The University of Massachusetts Amherst invites applications for full-time (9-month) faculty, at the level of Associate or full Professor that will be jointly appointed with the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences and the College of Engineering. This position will strengthen the collaboration between these colleges and will help lead the Robotics@UMass initiative and expand research, leadership, teaching, and outreach in all areas of robotics. We seek a new faculty member who can further elevate and contribute to our collaborative and supportive robotics community. Associate Dean of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst invites applications for an Associate Dean of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. This is an academic-year tenure-track faculty position at the Associate or Full Professor level, with a concurrent half-time Associate Dean role. Public Interest Technology Pathways Director (Lecturer) The Pathways Director will be part of the leadership team for PIT@UMass and will focus on directing the outreach efforts of the initiative that involves experts and practitioners in the private and public sectors. The Pathways Director will develop, lead, and teach a new PIT careers course and Clinic  and regularly teach the PIT introductory course. Search form Search CICS About Vision & Mission CICS at a Glance Contact Us Visiting CICS Dean's Office Our New Building Our History Faculty Achievements Employment Faculty Resources for Prospective Faculty Research Staff Computing Facilities Awards Programs