Graduate Application Instructions Send application materials directly to the Graduate Admissions Office only. For answers to frequently asked questions regarding the graduate admission application process, see the Graduate Admissions website . Deadline Information for all graduate applications June 1 for Fall (priority deadline for online and hybrid MS) July 15 for Fall (final deadline for online and hybrid MS) October 1 for Spring (on-campus MS) December 15 for Fall (MS & PhD) Master of Science program Materials to Submit for master's application PLEASE NOTE: Submission of GRE scores is optional for the Fall 2023 start term.  Choosing not to submit GRE scores will not harm an applicant's chances of admission. All students submit a Graduate School application for admission to the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Information and Computer Sciences. Online Application Personal Statement (suggestions below) Share your research and/or industry experiences. Share situations in which you have contributed to computing for the common good or how you plan to in the future. Share situations in which you have contributed or had a positive impact on increasing diversity in a STEM field. Transcripts -unofficial for the application If you are not sure if your degree equates to a U.S. four-year degree, please use this tool prior to submitting your application: https://applications.wes.org/degree-equivalency-tool/ Official transcripts are required by the Graduate School if admitted 2 Letters of Recommendation References will be requested through the online Graduate School application once an applicant submits the application Applicants should choose letter writers who are able to provide us with information about a research project, a community service experience, or work experience. English Exam scores for international students Applications that are missing transcripts will not be evaluated until the unofficial transcripts are uploaded to the application. Current Five College undergraduate students applying to a master's only program do not have to pay the admission fee. We strongly recommend that all students submit all required materials to the Office of Graduate Admissions before the deadline to ensure timely consideration. All application material questions should be directed to the Graduate School at gradadm@grad.umass.edu . Standardized Test Scores Although the University of Massachusetts Graduate school requires official paper English Exam score reports upon acceptance to our programs, the Graduate School accepts an upload of official score reports such as certified or notarized reports when foreign exchange creates a financial burden on the applicant. GRE The GRE test is optional for the MS program. Choosing not to submit GRE scores will not harm an applicants chances of admission. TOEFL/IELTS/PTE ***Please read the temporary COVID update to accepted English proficiency exams here . English Exams are required for many foreign students. This is a University Graduate School requirement. TOEFL may be waived if the applicant has attended on a full-time basis an American college or university for a period of at least two academic years immediately preceding anticipated entrance date. TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years from expected entrance date. The University of Massachusetts Amherst also accepts the IELTS (International English Language Testing System) and PTE Academic (Pearson Test of English). The official test scores must be sent to the Graduate Student Service Center. The minimum combined IELTS score needed is 6.5, minimum score for PTE is 75. Be sure to have your TOEFL score sent to the Graduate Admissions Office as soon as possible. The ETS University code is 3917, there is no Dept. code. Your test score must be valid upon the start of the CICS program. Waivers of this policy will not be granted. PhD Program We offer a student-led PhD applicant support program. This program provides 1-on-1 support for applicants who are underrepresented in the field of computer science. Qualified candidates will have the opportunity to receive feedback and guidance from a current CICS PhD student. For more information, visit the PhD Applicant Support Program web page. Additionally, the program will also provide general help via a live panel webinar to all applicants. Upcoming webinars are posted on the web page. Materials to Submit for phd program All students submit a University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School application for admission to the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences. Online Application Personal Statement (suggestions below) Share your research and/or industry experiences. Share situations in which you have contributed to computing for the common good or how you plan to in the future. Share situations in which you have contributed or had a positive impact on increasing diversity in a STEM field. Transcripts -unofficial for the application If you are not sure if your degree equates to a U.S. four-year degree, please use this tool prior to submitting your application: https://applications.wes.org/degree-equivalency-tool/ Official transcripts are required by the Graduate School once admitted 2 Letters of Recommendation References will be requested through the online Graduate School application once an applicant submits the application. Applicants should choose letter writers who are able to provide us with information about a research project, a community service experience, or work experience. English Exam scores for international students No GRE required for PhD (and MS/PhD) applicants We strongly recommend that all students submit all required materials to the Office of Graduate Admissions before the deadline to ensure timely notification to recommenders. Re-applying? Log into your SPIRE account and add an updated SoP. Please leave your reference documents blank and after you submit your application email gradreference@grad.umass.edu to request the reference letters be moved over to your new application. English Proficiency Exams ***Please read the temporary COVID update to accepted English proficiency exams here . The TOEFL or other English Proficiency Exam is required for many foreign students. This is a University Graduate School requirement. TOEFL may be waived if the applicant has attended on a full-time basis an American college or university for a period of at least two academic years immediately preceding anticipated entrance date. TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years from expected entrance date. The University of Massachusetts Amherst also accepts the IELTS (International English Language Testing System) and PTE Academic (Pearson Test of English). The official test scores must be sent to the Graduate Student Service Center. The minimum combined IELTS score needed is 6.5, minimum score for PTE is 75. Be sure to have your TOEFL score sent to the Graduate Admissions Office as soon as possible. The ETS University code is 3917, there is no Dept. code. Your test score must be valid upon the start of the CICS program. Waivers of this policy will not be granted. Application Fee The Graduate Admissions Office cannot consider any application for admission to the University of Massachusetts Amherst unless that application is accompanied by the required fee of $85 or the applicant has been granted a fee waiver. Fee waiver application process and guidelines are outlined below. United States citizens: A waiver of this fee is available to those U.S. citizens who are currently enrolled as full-time undergraduate students and who have qualified for a waiver of the GRE fee through their undergraduate financial aid office. A statement from a college or university financial aid officer attesting to receipt of, or eligibility for, the GRE fee waiver must accompany the application. US citizens and residents are also eligible to apply for the CICS PhD Admissions Program Fee Waiver as described below. United States citizens: The Graduate School is pleased to offer application fee waivers to eligible domestic students from underrepresented groups who are participants of the programs listed here . Current UMass Amherst students: A waiver of this fee is provided to UMass Amherst graduate students who are currently enrolled in a graduate program. Foreign applicants: Submission of the application processing fee is required. PhD applicants are also eligible to apply for the CICS PhD Admissions Program Fee Waiver as described below. CICS PhD Admissions Program Fee Waiver: CICS is offering a limited number of fee waivers to PhD applicants who have a financial need. To apply for the waiver applicants must complete the CICS Application for PhD Admissions Program Fee Waiver Form . Please only apply if you are sure you will be applying this application season. A limited number of application fee waivers are available and applications will be reviewed on a first-come basis. We will do our best to review and respond to your application within 10 days of receiving it. Acceptance or denial of your application for a fee waiver will not impact your admission status. Applicants who are granted a fee waiver will be notified and the college will notify the graduate school to waive the fee in order to mark your application complete. If we deny your request for a waiver, we will notify you to pay the fee in order to submit your application. The application will close on December 10th. after applying After you have submitted your application through the graduate school, you are able to check the status of your application in Slate. Application review may take up to three or four months. You will be receieve an email from the graduate school with our decision. Applicants who are admitted will also receive an admissions letter from the college by email. If you are offered admission, you will either accept or decline your offer of admission in Slate. If you accept the offer of admission, you will be added to the new student Moodle where you will be provided with resources and next steps. International students will receive an email from our International Programs Office with visa instructions. Accepted MS Amherst Students Congratulations on your acceptance to the CICS MS program! You will be asked to submit a decision in Slate within two weeks of receiving your University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School letter of acceptance. You may also defer your decision until April 15 for fall or November 15 for spring by selecting defer decision in Slate. Accepted PhD Students Congratulations on your acceptance to the CICS PhD program! You will be asked to submit a decision in Slate within two weeks of receiving your University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School letter of acceptance. In order to explore all of your opportunities as well as our research labs and faculty, we encourage you to select "defer decision" in Slate. This will give you up until April 15 to make a formal commitment to our doctoral program. During this time you may reach out to any of our faculty or staff with questions. We look forward to hearing from you! Search form Search CICS Future Students Degree Programs Certificate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Preparation Application Instructions Admissions FAQ