Bachelor's Apply for an undergraduate degree in computer science or informatics and join an exciting community of students preparing to be the next generation of innovators. Read more Master's Ready to take your career to the next level? Apply to one of our top-ranked, on-campus or online Master's programs to gain new skills for research or industry. Read more Doctoral Our highly-ranked Ph.D. program features world-renowned faculty, interdisciplinary research, and a spirit of collaboration. Read more Recent News Houmansadr Lab Wins Trifecta Of Awards For Groundbreaking Work On The Great Firewall Of China January 31, 2024 Amir Houmansadr, associate professor in the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences, has just received his third award for his investigation into Internet privacy and security for his co-authored USENIX Security 2023 paper, “How the... Read more » Dan Parker Honored with 2023 Outstanding Staff Achievement Award January 11, 2024 Dan Parker, senior systems manager for the Center for Intelligent Information Retrieval (CIIR) in the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS), has been selected to receive the 2023 College Outstanding Staff Achievement Award,... Read more » UMass Amherst Announces New Open Access Transformative Agreement With Association of Computing Machinery January 05, 2024 The UMass Amherst Libraries (Libraries) have partnered with the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) and the College of Engineering in an open access agreement with the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM). Under the terms... Read more » CICS Researchers Bring Dream of Bug-free Software One Step Closer to Reality January 04, 2024 In an ACM SIGSOFT ESEC/FSE award-winning paper, a team of computer scientists led by recent doctoral graduate Emily First and Professor Yuriy Brun announced a new method for automatically generating whole proofs that can be used to prevent software... Read more » Anupama Sitaraman ’24 Named Fall 2023 Rising Researcher December 07, 2023 Anupama Sitaraman ’24 uses computer science tools to explore pressing issues facing humanity, including combatting climate change and promoting sustainability. Read more » View All Search form Search CICS A New Building for the Future of Computing Construction is underway on a signature, 90,000 sq. ft. building that will serve as a hub for learning, innovation, and community for Manning CICS. Explore + Learn More Welcome The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) offers a world-class curriculum in support of BA, BS, MS, and PhD degrees. CICS is internationally recognized for its research activities and has one of the highest ranked and most competitive graduate programs in the nation. The College is distinguished by its culture of collaboration and leadership in multi-disciplinary research. Upcoming Events 14 Feb Graduate Event Synthesis & Portfolio Planning Webinar 9:00am A presentation on the college's unique portfolio requirement for doctoral students. 14 Feb Seminar Reading Between the Lines: Using Multiple Information Modalities for Robust Translational Digital Biomarkers Speaker: Ceara Byrne Computer Science Building, Room 150/151 12:00pm to 1:00pm Abstract: Digital biomarkers allow us to provide more quantifiable metrics for tracking therapeutic interventions and... 14 Feb Undergraduate Event UMass WICS Cookie Decorating Event Hasbrouck 228 6:00pm to 7:00pm Join us for an exciting Valentine's Day Cookie Decorating event with WICS! view all