Undergraduate Advising and the Informatics Major ​ The CICS Informatics Advising Team consists of  peer advisors, professional advising staff, and faculty. We work collaboratively to provide the best advising experience possible to prospective, on contract, and current Informatics majors. Drop-in hours with the peer advisors are held in person and appointments with the Informatics advisor will be held in the CICS Advising Suite on the first floor of the LGRC, A114. Appointments with Dr. Trim will be remote via zoom or in her office LGRC A347. For questions about the major, the application process, choosing electives, identifying ways to get involved on campus, student organizations related to data science/informatics or general questions about informatics and study abroad, visit one of our Informatics peer advisors. There will be no peer advising when classes are not in session and peer advising will follow the university calendar (e.g. when a Wednesday schedule is followed, Wednesday hours will be followed) unless otherwise posted here. Spring 2024 Peer advising walk-in hours are: Mon 1:30-3:30, Tues 1:00-3:00, Wed 1:30-3:30, Thurs 1:00-3:00. Peer Advisors are available at the CICS Advising Suite on the first floor of the LGRC, A114. For questions about advising related to new student orientation (NSO), applying to the major, pre-registration course selection, academic progress toward your degree, and for referral to other campus services, contact our professional advisors at the CICS Advising Office. For questions about elective proposals, unusual transfer or study abroad equivalencies, application status, and other specific concerns not covered above, contact the program Director, Michelle Trim , informatics [at] cs.umass.edu For answers to questions about specific requirements, check out our requirements page located here. If you are thinking about joining informatics, we recommend the following first and second year courses to get you started: In your first year at UMass: Second-year Students: Be introduced to Informatics: INFO 101 INFO 150 Get started on the programming sequence. CICS 110 CICS 160 Satisfy the stats requirement: Stats 240 or equiv. Continue the programming sequence: CICS 110 CICS 160 CICS 210 (required for those entering Fall 23 or later) Go deeper in Informatics: INFO 203 Indentify interests by exploring other domains: Sociology Public Health Economics Communications Archaeology Search form Search CICS