Online M.S. in Computer Science Expand your career opportunities with an online master’s degree in computer science. Admissions Academics Hybrid Program Student Experience FAQ Request Info Info Sessions Apply Now Hybrid M.S. in Computer Science The hybrid M.S. in Computer Science program is designed for students to start their program with online coursework and complete the remainder on campus in Amherst . This flexible 30-credit program is equivalent to our top-ranked in-person program. The hybrid program is ideal for students who want to begin their coursework while planning a physical move to the Amherst area. Courses cover cutting-edge topics like artificial intelligence, machine learning, and cybersecurity, and are taught by our award-winning faculty who are experts in their fields. Frequently Asked Questions When can I join the in-person program? After satisfactory completion of four online courses , students may join the in-person program. Students must earn a B or better in at least two core courses and a C or better in non-core courses before beginning in-person coursework. Will UMass sponsor my student visa? International students may begin on-campus coursework after satisfactory completion of four courses. The visa sponsorship process would begin during the semester the student is enrolled in the fourth course. The graduate programs office will notify the International Programs Office of the necessary sponsorship. Please visit the UMass International Programs Office website for more information about cost, travel, and arrival requirements. Will I be eligible for OPT upon completion of the hybrid degree? Yes, you will have completed two semesters of full-time coursework at UMass Amherst and will be eligible for OPT upon completion of your degree requirements. When is the application due? For the fall semester, the priority deadline is June 1; the final deadline is July 15. For the spring semester, the priority deadline is October 1; the final deadline is November 15. When will I find out if i've been accepted? Applications for the fall semester are reviewed in February and March and applications for the spring semester are reviewed in October. How can I learn more? Sign up for an information session to learn more about online coursework or sign up to receive more information about events, deadlines, and our program. Is the curriculum the same as the in-person master's of computer science program? Yes, the curriculum for the Hybrid program is the same as the in-person program's. Not all courses are available online, but more are being added each semester. Can I complete the master's concentrations in data science or cybersecurity? Students in the Hybrid program can begin coursework for the Data Science or Cybersecurity concentrations while remote. Talk to your advisor to ensure that you optimize your course schedule to complete the concentrations. How many courses should I take per semester? We recommend taking two or more courses per semester. Talk to your advisor about your specific situation.