Online M.S. in Computer Science Expand your career opportunities with an online master’s degree in computer science. Admissions Academics Hybrid Program Student Experience FAQ Request Info Info Sessions Apply Now Online M.S. in Computer Science The UMass Amherst online M.S. in Computer Science program allows you to earn your degree fully online while receiving the same rigorous education as our top-ranked in-person program. Expand your career opportunities with this flexible 30-credit program designed for any busy tech professional driven to advance their career. Courses cover cutting-edge topics like artificial intelligence, machine learning, and cybersecurity, and are taught by our award-winning faculty who are experts in their fields. Ranked #16 in AI and the #1 public computer science program in New England by U.S. News & World Report, and consistently among the top 20 according to CSRankings.org , the program focuses on the skills needed to solve complex problems through computing. Flexible A flexible schedule means that you can fit your education into your busy lifestyle. After satisfactory completion of four courses, you have the option to transfer to our in-person program where you can take courses in-person or a mix of both. Rigorous Offering the same academic rigor as our in-person program, the online M.S. in Computer Science will prepare you to take on today’s biggest societal challenges across many disciplines—from technology and finance to healthcare and beyond. Practical Learn how to apply AI, machine learning, data science, cybersecurity, and other advanced computing to solve real-world societal challenges. By the end of the program, students will have acquired the in-demand skills to accelerate their careers. Program at a Glance $825 per credit 30 credits 1-2 courses per semester #20 best grad school for computer science #11 in AI 3-4 years The online M.S. in Computer Science is a flexible, fully online master’s program for busy professionals who want to solve big problems through computing. The program combines the academic rigor and high quality of our in-person degree with the flexibility of an online program, allowing students to fit classes into their busy schedules. 100% online All courses are fully online, and many can be completed asynchronously. Most courses include opportunities for synchronous interaction with faculty. Begin online, finish in person With the Hybrid MS option , you can jumpstart your degree by taking four courses online, then come to campus for face-to-face courses and an in-person campus experience. Try a class Take up to two online courses before applying to our program. If you later join the program, you can transfer the credits earned towards your degree. Request Info Info Sessions Apply Now Career Outlook Our graduates are sought after by leading graduate schools, cutting-edge start-ups, and industry giants across sectors—from health care and finance to technology and the arts. 90% of M.S. graduates are employed or continuing their education. Median starting salary: $112,000 Source: College of Information and Computer Sciences Destination Report (Class of 2020) $112,000 Median starting salary for computer science master’s degree graduates. Source: CICS Careers First Destination Survey 4x job growth The number of computer science jobs will grow 15% by 2029, compared with 4% average for all occupations. Bureau of Labor and Statistics (2019) > 67% Two-thirds of all new jobs in STEM are in computing (code.org) 9:1 9 job openings for each computer science graduate (bestcolleges.com) Request Info Info Sessions Apply Now