Ph.D. Requirements The College expects that students starting work toward a PhD have a solid undergraduate background and Master's level background in Computer Science.  If you are unsure of your background, you should consult your advisor . Ph.D. Students are required to: Actively participate in research under the guidance of an advisor Satisfy 6 Core Requirements across the areas of Systems, AI and Theory Complete 18 course credits (core courses taken to satisfy core requirements are included) It is not possible to transfer course credits from outside UMass Amherst to satisfy those requirements. Pass the College of Information and Computer Sciences Qualifying Exam- Portfolio Form a Committee Propose a Thesis Complete 18 Dissertation Credits Pass the Teaching Assistant Requirement Pass the Residency Requirement at least 9 credits, each semester, in back-to-back semesters which is usually satisfied with the dissertation credits Defend and Submit a Thesis Sample Ph.D. Program The following schedule shows one way in which a PhD-only student could progress through the program to complete the PhD in four years. Because people have different backgrounds and different skills, your progress will almost certainly vary somewhat from this. It can be a helpful guide nonetheless. Students supported by an RAship will be able to make progress more efficiently if their Synthesis project and dissertation are well aligned with the RAship. Year Fall Spring 1st core (3cr) RA/TA core (3cr) core (3cr) RA/TA 2nd core (3cr) RA/TA Synthesis begins core (3 cr.) portfolio submitted 3rd core (3cr) RA/TA dissertation (9cr) thesis proposal RA/TA 4th dissertation (9cr) RA/TA RA/TA thesis defense PhD completed Most PhD students are supported by research or teaching assistantships . Search form Search CICS Current Students CICS Advising Graduate Students New Student Information Ph.D. Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Synthesis Project Portfolio Committee and Proposal Defense and Graduation Other Program Information MS/PhD Requirements MS Requirements Student Forms Academic Progress OPT for Graduate Students Registration Student Accomplishments Undergraduate Students Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations