Senior Celebration 2023 What a day! We were pleased and proud to celebrate the amazing achievements of the Class of 2023 at the CICS Senior Celebration on May 26, 2023. By now, graduates should have received an email from Ultimate Exposures, the official photographer for this year's CICS Senior Celebration, with information about graduation portraits. Candid photos of graduates with family and friends, and a recording of the celebration are now available at the links below. Enjoy! View the photo album on Flickr Watch the celebration on YouTube Undergraduate Commencement Friday, May 26, 9:00 a.m. McGuirk Alumni Stadium Undergraduate Commencement is the official graduation ceremony at which degrees are conferred for every graduate on campus. For more information, see the UMass Amherst Commencement website. CICS Senior Celebration Friday, May 26, 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. UMass Amherst Recreation Center 161 Commonwealth Avenue, Amherst, MA 01003 ( map ) This ceremony gives graduates the opportunity to be recognized individually by college faculty and administration. Each graduating student's name is read prior to the presentation of a University of Massachusetts medal and a special farewell gift from the college. Graduates' time on stage will be broadcast on large video screens and captured by a professional photographer. Students may bring as many guests as they would like. No tickets are required. For those who could not attend in person, a recording of the event is now available on YouTube . Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) What is the CICS Senior Celebration? The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) Senior Celebration is a ceremony held following Undergraduate Commencement, providing graduates the opportunity to be recognized individually by college faculty and administration. Each graduating student’s name is read prior to the presentation of a University of Massachusetts medal and a special farewell gift from the college. Graduates’ time on stage will be broadcast on large video screens and captured by a professional photographer. We encourage seniors and their families to attend both the UMass Amherst Undergraduate Commencement and the CICS Senior Celebration being held on May 26, 2023. When and where will it be held? The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences Senior Celebration will be held at the Recreation Center's Upper Courts (second floor) on Friday, May 26, 2023, starting at 2:00 p.m. Doors will open at 1:00 p.m. Graduating seniors should arrive at the Recreation Center promptly at 1:00 p.m. and register in Room 118/121 on the lower level, street side of the building, just past the service desk. Who can participate in the Senior Celebration? To be eligible to participate in the May 2023 Commencement ceremony, students must have fulfilled all graduation requirements at the time of the ceremony or be scheduled to do so by September 2023.  Students scheduled for February 2024 graduation who wish to attend the May 2023 ceremony must file a “Petition to Participate in an Earlier Commencement” form by March 30, 2023. This form is not online and only available at the Registrar’s Office in 213 Whitmore. I can't attend in person. Will the ceremony be live-streamed and recorded? The 2023 CICS Senior Celebration was live-streamed beginning at 2:00 pm on Friday, May 26. A recording of the event is now available on YouTube . How many guests are each student allowed? Do they need tickets? There is no limit to the number of guests each student can bring. Tickets are not required and seating is unreserved. What should participants and visitors wear? Graduating students and faculty dress in commencement caps and gowns. Students must arrive in their caps and gowns—caps and gowns will not be available at the Recreation Center. The Recreation Center is air-conditioned; however, it does get warm. Please dress comfortably. Where should I park? Guest parking is available in the Campus Center Parking Garage and in lots adjacent to the Recreation Center and Mullins Center. PayStation Lot 64, located adjacent to the Recreation Center, will be reserved for disabled patrons only. I have a disability. Can I request accommodations? The CICS Senior Celebration will be shown on large screens in the event venue and live captioned. Sign language or oral interpreters are available upon request. Call 413-545-0892 or send an email to aduchon [at] admin.umass.edu using the subject line “Commencement Interpreter Request.” Handicapped parking is available in the PayStation Lot 64; turn off Commonwealth Avenue to Hicks Way then take two left turns to circle around the Parks Band Building. Park in the lot just beyond the Northeast corner of the Recreation Center.  Elevator access is available in the Recreation Center for guests with mobility issues. Can I bring my camera? Yes! However, we ask that all audience members be courteous to each other and refrain from blocking the aisles. There will be professional photographers on hand to take photos of each graduate as they receive their medal and informal shots of graduates and families.  The photography company will be in touch with the graduates soon after the ceremony to review and order their official Senior Celebration photo. Will food be served? The Courtside Cafe inside the Recreation Center will be open, serving grab-n-go sandwiches, wraps, salads, and a variety of beverages and smoothies.  A full range of dining options is also available in the UMass Campus Center food courts. News & Events Events Calendar Senior Celebration 2023 Distinguished Lecturer Series Rising Stars in CS Lecture Series SigBits Magazine Brand Style Guide & Templates Event Support