Staff Employment Opportunities Administrative Manager - MassAITC The Administrative Manager works under the direction of the Center Directors and also works closely with the Associate Director, core leads and teams, and research staff to enable cross-center synergies between the UMass Institute of Applied Life Sciences, the NIA Roybal Centers at Brigham and Women's Hospital and Brandeis University, the Massachusetts Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, and the Northeastern Consortium for Proactive Care.  The Administrative Manager provides administrative support for the Center and its funded projects, oversees and manages engagement with external partners, manages web content related to center activities and goals, and provides logistical support for meetings, activities, and events. Assistant Director of Career Operations The Assistant Director of Career Operations supports CICS's mission of helping students discover, explore, and pursue professional experiences, as part of an entrepreneurial, student-centric team. Along with the CICS Careers Director and other Assistant Directors, they collaborate with the CICS community (employers, UMass staff and faculty, and a growing network of alumni), to benefit 2,400+ CICS undergraduate and graduate students. Business Manager - MassAITC The MassAITC Business Manager manages business and fiscal operations for academic, research, and outreach activities in a large and complex University research center. They work independently with authority to exercise judgment and initiative. The Business Manager performs strategic analyses and financial forecasts to inform Center business decisions and implements business, financial, and operational policies consistent with MassAITC and overarching College and University policies. This position offers the opportunity to be part of a dynamic community of researchers, practitioners and other experts working together at the cutting edge of the integration of AI and other forms of emerging technology to improve the lives of older adults, caregivers, and people living with dementia. The work of MassAITC reaches beyond the walls of the University by collaborating with numerous diverse stakeholders, including the private sector. Research Administrator The Research Administrator is responsible for the full life cycle of quality research administration ranging from proposal development to post award administration, award close-out, and award compliance for a group of Principal Investigators in the College of Information and Computer Sciences. Search form Search CICS About Vision & Mission CICS at a Glance Contact Us Visiting CICS Dean's Office Our New Building Our History Faculty Achievements Employment Faculty Research Staff Computing Facilities Awards Programs