Scholarships & Fellowships A number of programs are available that offer support for your UMass Amherst education. CICS Sponsored Fellowships/Scholarships Bay State Programs For the strongest computer science undergraduates at the University of Massachusetts Amherst as well as at the participating five colleges, the Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) offers students three special opportunities to enter its Master's of Science in Computer Science degree program: Baystate Master's, Baystate Scholars, and Baystate Fellowship. more >> Boosting Access to Data Science Scholars The Boosting Access to Data Science Scholarship program is a National Science Foundation-funded program providing financial assistance to new undergraduate students admitted into the informatics program and community college transfers admitted into the computer science or informatics program. The scholarship provides funding and support for four years of students' study who receive up to $10,000 per academic year. Recipients will be invited to join a range of cohort-based activities designed to build confidence, support academic success, and provide career preparation. Questions? Email boosting_info@cs.umass.edu . CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service (SFS) Program The CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service (SFS) program, funded by the National Science Foundation and the Department of Homeland Security, provides scholarships to current Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences undergraduate and graduate students who expect to graduate within four semesters. Academic year stipends are $25,000 for undergraduate students and $34,000 for graduate students. After graduation, participants must fulfill a government service obligation for a period equivalent to the length of their scholarship. NCWIT Award for Aspirations in Computing The Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences will award a $1,000 scholarship to a National or Regional NCWIT Aspirations in Computing Award winner who is accepted and enrolls at UMass Amherst as a computer science major. Students who make excellent progress will be eligible and considered for additional scholarships during their subsequent years of study. State/Dept. of Higher Education Sponsored Scholarships John and Abigail Adams Scholarship Program The John and Abigail Adams Scholarship awards non-need-based state-supported undergraduate tuition waivers to students who are awarded John and Abigail Adams Scholarship by the Department of Education. The purposes of the Adams Scholarship are to: Reward and inspire student achievement; Help attract more high-performing students to Massachusetts public higher education; and Provide families of college-bound students with financial assistance. Agnes M. Lindsay Scholarship Program The Agnes M. Lindsay Scholarship provides scholarships for students with demonstrated financial need who are from rural areas of Massachusetts and attend public institutions of higher education within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Christian A. Herter Scholarship Program The Christian A. Herter Memorial Scholarship Program is a state-supported program whose mission includes providing educational opportunities to Commonwealth students who demonstrate academic promise and desire to attend post-secondary institutions. The Christian A. Herter Memorial Scholarship Program was established in 1972 by the Massachusetts State Legislature as an early identification program to recruit students in the 10th and 11th grades whose socio-economic backgrounds and environmental conditions may inhibit their ability to persevere and attain educational goals. MASSGrant Program The MASSGrant is a grant assistance program funded by appropriations from the Massachusetts Legislature. The MASSGrant program provides need-based financial assistance to undergraduate students who reside in Massachusetts and who are enrolled in and pursuing a program of higher education in any approved public or independent college, university, school of nursing or any other approved institution furnishing a program of higher education. MassTransfer MassTransfer, a program sponsored by the Massachusetts Department of Education , has two main purposes: 1) provides community college students who complete associate degrees and enroll in linked MassTransfer programs with the full transfer of credit, guaranteed admission, and a tuition discount (each based on final GPA); and 2) provides any student in the Massachusetts public higher education system who completes the MassTransfer Block with the benefit of satisfying the general education/distribution/core requirements at any other public higher education institution (with the receiving institution able to add no more than six additional credits or two courses). STEM Scholar Internship Match Program The Scholar-Internship Match Fund was established by the Massachusetts Department of Education to provide a match for industry scholarships and internships given to Massachusetts residents pursuing a post-secondary degree at Massachusetts public higher education institutions. Eligible students, beginning in their sophomore year, shall pursue career paths in specific science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. The DHE award amount is contingent upon the student receiving a corresponding industry scholarship or internship. The annual DHE Scholar Internship award to each recipient under this program shall not exceed $5,000 per student. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine The National Research Council of the National Academies sponsors a number of awards for graduate, postdoctoral and senior researchers at participating federal laboratories and affiliated institutions. These awards include generous stipends ranging from $42,000 - $80,000 per year for recent Ph.D. recipients, and higher for additional experience. Graduate entry level stipends begin at $30,000. These awards provide the opportunity for recipients to do independent research in some of the best-equipped and staffed laboratories in the U.S. The program is open to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and for some of the laboratories, foreign nationals. University of Massachusetts Sponsored Scholarships Academic Honors Scholarship This $5,000 scholarship is awarded to the first-place winner of the Massachusetts Science Fair. This scholarship may be combined with tuition waivers. Industry/Industry Association Sponsored Scholarships National Security Agency Mathematics and Computer Science Student Scholarship The National Security Agency (NSA) is a world leader in Signals Intelligence. We carry out some of the nation's most important and sensitive intelligence activities to secure information superiority for America and its allies. We have two primary missions. Our Information Assurance mission is the defense: it protects U.S. information by preventing foreign adversaries from gaining access to our information systems. Our Signals Intelligence mission is the offense: collecting foreign signals and producing intelligence to give U.S. policy makers and warfighters the decision advantage. NSA also enables network warfare operations to defeat terrorists and their organizations at home and abroad, consistent with U.S. laws and the protection of privacy and civil liberties. At the nation's top cryptologic organization, we employ the best and the brightest, who use their intelligence to solve some of the nation's most difficult challenges. We are also the largest employer of mathematicians in the country, as well as one of the most important centers of foreign language analysis and research. The Google Anita Borg Scholarship The Google Anita Borg Scholarship hopes to encourage women to excel in computing and technology and become active role models and leaders. Scholarships will be awarded based on the strength of candidates' academic backgrounds and demonstrated leadership. A group of female undergraduate and graduate student finalists will be chosen from the applicant pool. The scholarship recipients will each receive a $10,000 scholarship. Microsoft Scholarships Each year, Microsoft awards over half a million dollars in scholarships to deserving college students with a minimum 3.0 GPA who wish to pursue careers in computer science or related technical fields. There are general scholarships, as well as scholarships for women, minorities, and students with disabilities. The Microsoft scholarships cover up to 100% of the student's academic year tuition as posted by the financial aid office of the university or college. Visit Microsoft's Scholarship website for more information. Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship Barry M. Goldwater Scholarships are awarded to full-time sophomores or juniors pursuing careers in computer science, mathematics, or engineering. All applicants must have a grade point average of at least a "B" and be in the upper fourth of their class. Up to 300 Barry M. Goldwater Scholarships are awarded each year, with recipients from across the United States. The amount of the scholarship is based on the student's tuition, fees, books, room, board, and other eligible expenses as certified by a campus financial aid officer. Search form Search CICS Current Students CICS Advising Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Info for New Students Becoming a CS Major Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships & Fellowships Bay State Programs Undergraduate FAQ Research Opportunities Accelerated Master's in Computer Science Contact Us Transfer Course Equivalencies Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations