Info for New Students Welcome to UMass Amherst and the College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS)! We are delighted that you have chosen to attend UMass Amherst and become a member of our college’s community of innovators and problem solvers, who are devoted to our vision of “computing for the common good.” Many new students experience a mix of excitement and anxiety at the start of the academic year. CICS faculty and staff are here to support you from your first “Hello, World!”  through to graduation. If you have any questions or concerns, we encourage you to email CICS Advising at cicsadvising [at] umass.edu . Sincerely, Laura Haas, Dean Start Here! New Student Checklist Parent Checklist New Student Orientation Resources CICS Advising CICS Events Calendar University Health Services/Immunization Information UMass Disability Services Academic Calendar Follow us on Social Media! CICS on Instagram CICS on Facebook CICS on Twitter CICS on LinkedIn FAQ How do I register for classes? Visit the New Student Checklist for instructions on logging into SPIRE, the university system for registration. How do I check my UMass email? Undergraduate students use UMass Amherst Google Mail . Check out the FAQ for information on how to set up and check your UMass email. How do I register for New Student Orientation? Visit the New Student Checklist for instructions on logging into SPIRE, the university system for registration. How do I buy my textbooks? Visit the New Student Checklist for instructions ordering books. How can parents/families help and stay in touch? Parents and families should check out the New Parent/Family Checklist for information on how to support your student and stay in touch. Current Students CICS Advising Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Info for New Students Becoming a CS Major Undergraduate Degree Programs Scholarships & Fellowships Bay State Programs Undergraduate FAQ Research Opportunities Accelerated Master's in Computer Science Contact Us Transfer Course Equivalencies Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations