Undergraduate Advising REGISTRATION UPDATES CICS registration information: https://www.cics.umass.edu/content/registration-fall-2023-courses Current course registration updates from CICS Programs: https://www.cics.umass.edu/registration-updates CICS course override form: https://www.cics.umass.edu/ugrad-education/overrides FOR GENERAL QUESTIONS Email cicsadvising [at] umass.edu . This is preferred and the fastest way to contact us. If you are unable to email, call us at 413-545-4822 and speak with our Advising Center Coordinator. If you leave a voicemail, include your name, student ID, and email address if possible. CICS PEER ADVISING: For general questions, consider working with a Peer Advisor! Select the link on the right or click here . WE ARE HERE FOR YOU! CICS Advisors are available in-person or remotely for any questions you may have! We have Zoom and in-person appointments available , and will respond to email ( cicsadvising [at] umass.edu or your advisor's email as listed on your SPIRE Student Center page). You can also call the office at 413-545-4822 and speak with the Advising Center Coordinator. USEFUL LINKS: UMass Amherst Coronavirus Student Resources: Comprehensive list of Coronavirus Information Residential Life: Look for updates on left of page Course Registration Information: The UMass Registrar has current information International Students: Updates from IPO Manage stress and anxiety with CCPH apps and online resources SPRING 2022 Information for Current Students SPEAK WITH YOUR ASSIGNED ADVISOR: To discuss Spring 2022 and future course selection and registration To talk about your options for Spring 2022 and beyond For complicated or sensitive questions Family or medical emergencies Resolve an Academic Hold Concerns about your CICS experience Challenges adapting to UMass or your major or getting involved on campus Information about ways to enhance your major > Book an Advising Appointment CICS Advisors help students understand their academic environment and make the most of their student career. We are here for any questions you have, and are happy to link you to the many resources at CICS and the University. Please let us know how we can help! Search form Search CICS Current Students CICS Advising Undergraduate Advising Course Registration Undergraduate Advising Resource Guide Advising Forms and Policies CICS Peer Advising for Undergraduates Study Abroad at CICS MS Program Advising Faculty/ Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Courses Career Development CICS Writing Center Student Organizations